The Home Theater Network


The Home Theater Entertainment system is fast and agile media streaming platform with new and already available content. It is a specific platform for movies and TV shows which are licensed from production companies. The platform is not only a streaming portal but also contains additional features like video recommendations, genre based classification, ratings and comment system for proper recommendation and user selection. The platform uses a target based user selection for recommendation of videos. The main functionality of the system will be that application can stream videos of different genres, acquired through several licensing deals. Video playback can be manipulated by the user, letting them pause, play, fast forward, rewind etc. The user can also use several accessibility functions such as a captioning system that can be translated using an English translation API. The second feature will be a Robust and intelligent recommendation system.  Users can rate videos on a scale of 1 to 5 stars. These recommendations will be used to tailor the recommendations of all users using a machine learning algorithm on our servers, which will use user similarity and factors such as viewing time, list of actors and directors, genre, etc. in order to estimate the user’s ratings for all of our other videos. This will also allow the application to allow the users to discover new videos, and hence drive subscriptions. Another feature will be a comment system where users can leave comments on all videos, allowing a community to be formed. This will also serve as a secondary method for users to vet videos they would want to watch, by reading the general opinion of other users as well as discuss their favourite videos with like-minded individuals. This sense of connection to our application’s community will also help drive subscriptions. The application will also be supporting a day and night mode in which users can toggle between the day and night mode which will invert the colors of the user interface. This will help protect user’s vision during long viewing sessions and drive use even during late hours. Further toggling to night mode will occur automatically during night time. Users will also  have a profile and they can use a payment gateway in order to pay for a monthly subscription. There will be different pricing models depending on the length of subscription and features offered. Lastly videos can be sorted and searched using several parameters defined by the user. Thus users can view videos sorted by title, genre, year, actor, rating or a combination of these. They can search using these parameters as well.